---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Learning for a Lifetime
date: 2017-03-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Lifelong Learning
---

What is lifelong learning?

Lifelong learning is the commitment of a person to their education and expansion of their knowledge and understanding as they continue to progress in their life and career.  Lifelong learning can be practiced in a variety of ways: going through traditional education, participating in mentorships, joining professional clubs, attending workshops and many others.  While many of these examples seem to have no connection to one another, they can be categorized into two separate groups, formal and informal instruction. 


Why is lifelong learning important?

Lifelong learning is applicable to every field, especially to those in the field of technology; however, the idea of lifelong learning is seemingly mandatory for those who wish to be engineers.  According to Smerdon, knowledge of software for software engineers becomes obsolete about every 2.5 years.  Dr. Lorna also agrees with this statement as she states that what was extremely difficult to do back then will eventually become the elementary basis of tomorrow’s developing engineers.

Conclusion

Although lifelong learning will take a lifetime to fully experience, it provides engineers with simple, countless methods to continuously acquire knowledge and understanding while positively impacting other aspects of life as well such as social and mental wellbeing.  As stated previously in this paper, lifelong learning is extremely applicable to every field. However, in engineering - a field where knowledge is one of the biggest assets to a company - the benefits of lifelong learning far outweigh any disbelief in the idea and methodology.  Because engineers cannot be limited or inflexible in their knowledge and understanding of future technology and processes, engineers who are preparing for their debut in the field should expect and look forward to becoming avid lifelong learners.
